63070: Custom Domain UI Changes (#812)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/packaging-private-registry-cname.md

# Using Custom Domains (Beta)

> This topic describes using custom registry domains and how to configure them using the Replicated vendor portal or the vendor API.

Reviewer: Not just registry domains soon, so might as well drop that wording now.
```suggestion
This topic describes using custom domains to alias Replicated endpoints, and how to configure them using the Replicated vendor portal or the vendor API.
```

Reviewer: Do you think we can remove the vendor API steps? We don't show those for other actions you can take, and people can refer to the API docs if they want to do that. Just seems like this section is an aberration if we include those steps.

## Custom Registry Domains {#registry}

> You can use custom domains as aliases for the replicated.registry.com and proxy.replicated.com endpoints, by creating Canonical Name (CNAME) records for your domains, also known as custom domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use custom domains as aliases for the replicated.registry.com and proxy.replicated.com endpoints, by creating Canonical Name (CNAME) records for your domains.
```

The TXT records can be removed once verification is complete.

If you configure a second application to use an existing, configured domain, the configured domain is automatically validated if both applications belongs to the same team.

## Limitations

Configuring a custom domain has the following limitations:

> - A single CNAME record cannot be used for both the registry and proxy endpoints. A single domain can map to registry.replicated.com for any number of applications, but cannot map to both registry.replicated.com and  proxy.replicated.com, even if the applications are different.

Reviewer: CNAME is an implementation detail. So in the docs now, I'd rather now refer to them directly when it's avoidable. So here we could say that a single custom domain cannot be used for both registry and proxy. Something like that.

- Custom domains cannot be used to alias replicated.app (release manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services.

## Configure a Custom Domain

You can configure custom domains for the Replicated private registry and the proxy service in the vendor portal or the vendor API.

### Use the Vendor Portal

To configure a custom domain in the vendor portal:

1. Log in to the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), and click **Team > Custom Domains**.

1. In the **Use custom domains instead of...** pane for either registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com, click **Add your first custom domain** or **Add a new domain**.

1. Enter the custom domain in the text box, and click **Save**.

1. From Create CNAME record, copy the text string and create the CNAME record in your DNS account. Click **Continue**.

>     The **Configure a custom domain** wizard opens.

Reviewer: The wizard should open and then you enter the custom domain (above). Let me know if that isn't clear from Figma.

Author: Yep, the design changed and now I have the current version documented. This should be ok now.

> 1. For **Domain**, add the domain used for images pushed to the Replicated registry. Click **Save & continue**.

Reviewer: This is specific to the Replicated registry. The text would be different if it was for the proxy service.

Author: I updated this to reflect that. Thanks.

1. For **Verify ownership**, copy the text string and use it to create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Verify & continue**.

1. For **TLS cert creation verification**, copy the text string and use it to create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Validate & finish**.

    Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

> 1. From the **Custom Domains** page, click **Use custom domain in an application** next to the domain that you want to use. Copy the snippet from the **Use custom domain in an application** dialog that opens, then click **Ok, got it!** to close the dialog.

Reviewer: This step actually shows up as step 4 in the wizard (see Figma). You can access it here if you need to later. But this will show in the wizard as you're setting it up.

Author: Thanks. I just updated per the latest Figma design.

The TXT records can be removed once verification is complete.

> If you configure a second application to use an existing, configured domain, the configured domain is automatically validated if both applications belongs to the same team.

Reviewer: This sentence might no longer be necessary since we configure these at the team level now, rather than the app

### Limitations

> Configuring a custom registry domain has the following limitations:

Reviewer: It works for this iteration, but we might want to move these to a more global level since these will be limitations of all custom domains, not just the registry ones.

Author: OK, I moved this and also moved the topic to sit under the Team Management section of the TOC.

- A single custom domain cannot be used for both the registry and proxy endpoints. A single domain can map to registry.replicated.com for any number of applications, but cannot map to both registry.replicated.com and  proxy.replicated.com, even if the applications are different.
- Custom domains cannot be used to alias replicated.app (release manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services.

### Configure Registry Domains in the Vendor Portal

You can configure custom domains for the Replicated private registry or the proxy service in the vendor portal or the vendor API.

To configure a custom domain in the vendor portal:

1. Log in to the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), and click **Team > Custom Domains**.

1. From the **Custom domains...** pane for either the Replicated registry or the proxy service, click **Add your first custom domain** for your first domain, or click **Add new domain** for additional domains.

  The **Configure a custom domain** wizard opens.

> 1. For **Domain**, enter the custom domain used for images pushed to the Replicated registry or proxy service. Click **Save & continue**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For **Domain**, enter the custom domain that will be used for images pushed to the Replicated registry or proxied by the proxy service. Click **Save & continue**.
```

> 1. For **Verify ownership**, copy the text string and create the custom domain record in your DNS account. The text string can take a few seconds to appear. Click **Validate & continue**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For **Verify ownership**, copy the text string and use it to create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Validate & continue**.
```

  Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

1. For **TLS cert creation verification**, copy the text string and use it to create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Validate & continue**.

    Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

> 1. For **Use Domain**, copy the snippet to use as a template if needed. Click **Ok. got it!**.

Reviewer: We actually have an additional step here (not in Figma) that tells you to create the CNAME record. Feel free to use or modify this.
```suggestion
1. For **Create CNAME**, copy the text string and use it to create a CNAME record in your DNS account. Click **Validate & continue**.

1. For **Use Domain**, copy the snippet to use as a template if needed. Click **Ok, got it!**.
```

1. Create a new release and create the new field for either `proxyRegistryDomain` or `replicatedRegistryDomain` in the Application custom resource manifest file. You can use the code snippet template from the previous step or manually code the field. For more information, see [proxyRegistryDomain](../reference/custom-resource-application#proxyRegistryDomain) and [replicatedRegistryDomain](../reference/custom-resource-application#replicatedRegistryDomain) in the _Application_ section.

> ### Configure Registry Domains with the Vendor API

Author: @ajp-io  Did anything change for the API section?

Author: Also, @rianfowler @ajp-io - Is this section being added to the vendor portal yet or should I delete this content for now? https://deploy-preview-812--replicated-docs.netlify.app/vendor/packaging-private-registry-cname#assign-a-custom-domain-to-an-application

Reviewer: The stuff for assigning the domain to an app is live.
